---
layout: post
title: Your ideas are like your children, you want them to have the best life possible
subtitle: paraphrase Prof. Patrick Winston
tags: [life]
---

Today I watched this lecture by Professor Patrick Winston [lecture video](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-034-artificial-intelligence-fall-2010/lecture-videos/lecture-15-learning-near-misses-felicity-conditions/).

I came across this series (MIT 6.034) when I was searching for a video about boosting. I have been watching the "learning" parts of the series.

Everytime I feel I may not learned much technical (e.g. may still not be able to implement the algo from sratch）but get something philosophical about learning. But I don't worry about the techinical parts at all: there are tons of material online that could teach me how to write some algo from sratch, but there is only one Prof Winston. 

For example, I learned many times how to derive "neural net" weights, I could appreciate the chain rules and functions when I saw them but I never truly get it. 

From him, I suddenly learned that $$\frac{dP}{dw} = i*\delta$$ which means, each weight has a partial derivative that is determined by its input and its delta, where delta depends on its ouputs.

These are valuable information that could only come from scholars like Prof Winston: it takes years of experience to provide such insightful generalization of rules/principles.

Let's talk about today's lecture. He talked 2 important ideas "how to be smarter" and "how to package your ideas better". These are things we all want, right? Let's see how to get there.

# How to be smarter?

Talk to yourself when trying to solve problems.

I think this kind of explain why people are all saying "writing is important". Perhaps part of it is writing is a way we talk to ourselves. 

# How to package your ideas better?

Prof Winston talked about: Your ideas are like your children, you want them to have the best life possible. I suddenly get it now: writing well and presenting well is not just a thing you do for important occasions (e.g. a job talk or a seminar with large audience), but it is also valuable for "not so important" occasions: you still want your "children" to have a good life no matter what.

This is a great lesson, it makes all the prep you do to polish and package your ideas meaningful.

As about how, you need five "S":

* symbol (graphic) e.g. arch

* slogan (verbal) e.g. near miss

* salient (stick out) most noticeable or important.

I feel this is the hard part: how do we achieve this? But there shouldn't be a formula for something like this. 

* surprise 

e.g. one shot learning is a surpise becuase people are used to algo that learn from many examples but not by one!

* story

I feel successful companies/products usually have most of these 5 components. As for me, I am not sure whether I could get somewhere like this, but these can be the standards I try to achieve even if I couldn't get there.
